The information theory, born from the publications of Claude Shannon in the
last fifty years of the XX century, has allowed us to study the communication
world. The technological evolution of the last years has as its basis the con-
cept of communication. Quantum mechanics can be the key enabler for the
next generation communication systems. The possibility to engineer the prop-
erties of quantum systems is essential for the design of an optimized quantum
communication systems.
Quantum technologies can be classified into two categories ([?]): discrete
variables systems (DVs) and continuous variables systems (CVs). DV technolo-
gies are based on discrete quantum states, such as qubits, and are the quantum
equivalents of digital signals. CV technologies are based on continuous values
quantum states, such as coherent states, and are the equivalents of analog sig-
nals. The use of CVs offers the possibility to use the existing classical network
infrastructure by just adapting the apparatuses in the network nodes; and, on
the other side, CVs states are more easy to generate and manage [?]. For this
reasons, in this thesis we will describe and analyze the second category of quan-
tum communication system.

SEZIONE: QUANTUM COMMUNICATION
With quantum communication we mean the task of transferring classical or
quantum information ([?, ?, ?, ?]) from one place to another one, using quantum
technologies. The use of quantum states for the representation of informations
allows us to overcome the limits of classical communication systems. In partic-
ular, the use of non-Gaussian photon-added states, as it will be shown in this
thesis, can improves significantly the performance of communication systems.
The use of photon-added states like photon-added coherent states (PACSs) and
photon-added squeezed states (PASSs) is importat too for the possibility to
easily generate these states by using linear and non-linear optical devices. The
main objective of this thesis is therfore to analyze the performance of quantum
communication systems using PACSs [?, ?, ?, ?] and PASSs.

SEZIONE: OBJECTIVES
The goal of this thesis, as mentioned before, is to analyze the performance of
quantum communication systems using PACSs and PASS. The main content of
this thesis are:
Chapter 2: A brief introduction of the quantum theory for CVs with particular
emphasis on the characterization of non-Gaussian photon-added states;
Chapter 3: The description of a quantum communication system;
Chapter 4: The performance analysis of quantum systems using PACSs and
PASSs.
